[MUSIC]
Another powerful feature, of a list is the
ability to be able
to modify it, which is something you can't
do with the tuple.
So, what I'm going to be showing you now
is several different functions that allows
us to, edit.
But if, modify, insert, and delete things
from, the list.
So, as you can see I've just got a basic
list at the
top, which goes from 1 to 11, like we did
in the last video.
And then we're just gonna print out a,
variable called Item.
So we're going to create, [SOUND] the
First of all I'll change this over to
List, [SOUND] and I'll do Inserting.
So, with, a list, you can append,
something.
So if I do list.append [SOUND] and if I
appended number
12 then at the end of the list, you get
number 12.
Now, this is quite a useful, a useful
function because it will allow us
to, add and subtract things from a list,
should we have a need to.
[SOUND].
And, the next thing that we're going to do
is gonna extend the list.
And, the way that we extend lists is I'm
going to create a
second list, [SOUND] and I'm going to just
have 12, 13, 14, in that.
And if I extend with list 2.
Then if we output list, we now get list 1
and list 2 combined together.
And list 2 is added to the end of list 1.
So, whatever parameter we put inside of
here, it's added
to the end of the, parameter that we
concastinating on to.
So here you can see we've got a full stub,
and
that's just to show that we have a
function acting upon.
The, object which is the, list in this
case.
Okay, so now that we know how to insert
and we know how
to, well, we know how to append, and we
also know how to extend.
This.
Also, if we wanted to put something in the
middle here.
So, if I wanted to add a number 12 between
the 5 and the 6.
Then we can see we've got 0, 1, 2, 3, 4,
5.
So, index 5.
And so, if we do list.extend [SOUND]
insert.
Now this takes two prompters.
The first one's in the, index and the next
one's the item.
So I'm just going to add index 5 and item
is 12.
And you can see here between the 5 and the
6 we now get number 12 added.
So we've got 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 12, 6, 7, 8,
9, 10 and so on.
[SOUND] Now this is something which is
quite useful if you were to, again
use it for a user's system I would think,
or a similar fact to that.
You'll be able to, insert any specific
data any index that you wish.
So it allows us to change certain things.
Now if we wanted to edit, index 5 instead
of inserting a new thing
there, what we do is we do list, [SOUND]
and then the index is 5.
And we put an equal to, [SOUND] and we can
change that to 12.
And where we have number 6 now, we now
have number 12 instead.
So if you want to edit something we use
the, selector which we did before.
And the same can be said if we add [SOUND]
the selector in this step.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
[SOUND] So as you can see, because we are
editing it and we have the.
Index of 5 here.
Now that we have the, index of 12 and the
value of 12 added to our index of 5 should
be.
So, where we have 6 up here is now
converted to 12.
Now we can also, [SOUND] use math
functions here.
[SOUND] So, if we wanted to have it so, it
can per specific value again.
So, this one, instead now we're
multiplying it by two.
Then we get the value from here, and we
multiply it by 2.
So, you can see that, even though these
two sides are exactly the same if
we exclude the, multiply by 2, the
assignment
means that whatever value is taken from
here.
Is now added to here.
So the assignment which I've mentioned
before has been a single equal sign, is
a very important operator because it is
one of the main things we use within.
With any program language and especially
Python.
So, as you can see with the assignment we
can do any, any form of function that we
wish.
Any, any form of
operation that we wish.
So if its math based or whether it's
just a simple, string assignment or object
assignment.
You can choose, how you want to add
something to this.
Now, if we look at, one looking at
deleting, a section of
the list, [SOUND] then what we can do is,
say if we have.
A list of 5 and we want it to step by 2,
towards the, [SOUND] actually, 5 to 7.
I'll do that way first.
Then what you can see is that we
can delete that, [SOUND] that sequence by
typing down.
And then list 5 to 7.
And now, where we did have, number 5 to 7,
you can
see we've lost number 6 and number 7
within this, within the list.
Which is why number 5 and 7, the index of
5 to 7, is.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
So, There's also another way in which we
can remove some
things within a list, and that is using
[SOUND] the Remove function.
[SOUND] So if we remove here, now this,
searches for a value and then removes that
value.
So you can't put an index in here, instead
what we're looking at is putting a value.
So I'm going to [SOUND] put number 9 or
find a number 9, and then remove number 9.
Now index of 9 is actually 1, 2, saving 1,
2,
3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, actually it's number
10.
So, as you can tell, since the number 10
is still here, as moving the value of, 10.
The way we can prove this is if I was to
add the string of 1, and remove the string
of 1.
[SOUND] Now, you can see there is no
actual difference
here and that's because the string is
added and removed.
So, this in here is what we're removing,
is the value, is not the index.
[SOUND] So, if that value isn't in there.
For example, if I set it to 2.
It throws this exception which we, I've
showed you before how you can catch
the exception, and how you can, return a
certain value, based on that exception.
So, because I've showed you how you can do
that, all you need to do.
It's simply.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
[SOUND] Because I'm showing you how you
can catch an exception.
All you need to do now is, because you can
see it's a value error, you catch
it based on a value error and you
can return, whatever value you need based
on that.
[SOUND] There's one more function which we
can cover, and that is the Reverse
function.
If you want to remove something from one,
one end
of, the actual, if you want to append
something to, avert.
Now there's one more function which we can
look at which is the, the Reverse
function.
Now if you want to, add something to the
beginning, there isn't
actually an Append function, but what you
can do is reverse it and
then append something which will add it to
do that, to the now
far right-hand side, which is actually the
left-hand side as it currently stands.
[SOUND] So if we were to, [SOUND] reverse.
You'll see that we get the list in the
opposite direction.
Now, if we were to append, [SOUND] the
value of 0,
and then reverse it again, [SOUND] you'll
see if it
is effectively the same as prepending
something.
Now, although this is a slightly awkward
workaround, it works perfectly fine.
And it is, one I would recommend that you
go with.
There is, alternative methods of doing it,
but I won't show you how you do that.
Because, this is the easiest and the,
probably best way of doing it.
[SOUND] So thank you for watching and I
will see you in the next video.
[MUSIC]